some more refactoring (#3)
ietf-scitt/charter: ietf-scitt-charter.md

Some of the fundamental security issues that face the supply chain ecosystem today are as follows:

1. A single product is composed of multiple sub-products coming from different suppliers. There is no agreed upon standard to compose information from different producers
2. No APIs defined for automated publishing, retrieval or independent verification of the information above.
3. Absence of decentralized globally inter-operable transparency services to publish the supply chain data in a transparent manner
4. Insufficient standards for independently verifying the presence of supply chain data in tamper proof data stores 

A minimal, simple and concise set of building blocks that interact in a standardized way will serve to assure long term accountability and inter-operability for supply chain components throughout their lifecycles across architecturally diverse systems.

Goals
=====
Based on an input document on the architecture (draft-birkholz-scitt-architecture-00), the WG will: 

1. standardize the overall security flows for securing a software supply chain, covering the essential building blocks that make up the architecture, and

> 2. specify these building blocks, employing the existing work already done within other IETF WGs such as COSE WG, IETF RATS WG, as appropriate.

Reviewer: I would like to coordinate with W3C WGs as well, specifically the DID WG and the VC WG.

The input document on the architecture may be refined in the process.

Non-Goals
=========
The WG does not:

1. make recommendations or suggestions on best practices on how to design the supply chain,
2. establish a universal/centralized registry for supply chain data,
3. try to prevent supply chain issuers from making false claims, 

> 4. define specific implementation guidance on storage, query or retrieval of supply chain statements, or

Reviewer: interop on query retrieval remain a concern... can we refine this  / split these appart?

5. select specific Bill of Material formats and metadata header.

Program of Work
===============
The working group will develop standards supporting interoperable supply chain building blocks.
The main deliverables are as follows:

> 1. The WG will select (and potentially profile or augment) acceptable common identity format/formats that shall be used in the SCITT eco-system. This will enable inter-operability across geographical regions and also tracing the identity chain in a seamless manner when a product is comprised of mutliple sub-products coming from multiple issuers. This includes a model of essential actors, such as the supply chain "issuer" (one which generates supply chain artefacts), and their duties in the ecosystem.

Reviewer: excellent.

> 1. The WG will select (and potentially profile or augment) acceptable common identity format/formats that shall be used in the SCITT eco-system. This will enable inter-operability across geographical regions and also tracing the identity chain in a seamless manner when a product is comprised of mutliple sub-products coming from multiple issuers. This includes a model of essential actors, such as the supply chain "issuer" (one which generates supply chain artefacts), and their duties in the ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The WG will select (and potentially profile or augment) acceptable common identity format/formats that shall be used in the SCITT eco-system. This will enable inter-operability across geographical regions and also tracing the identity chain in a seamless manner when a product is comprised of multiple sub-products coming from multiple issuers. This includes a model of essential actors, such as the supply chain "issuer" (one which generates supply chain artifacts), and their duties in the ecosystem.
```

2. The WG will define envelope and common schema for carrying supply chain claims/endorsements.

> 3. The WG will standardize the Transparent Registry requirements to generate homogenity across multiple supply chains.

Reviewer: +1

4. A standard format for authenticity data returned from the transparent registry, such as proof etc. The standard will enable independent verification about supply chain claims at a (much) later point on multiple platforms across multiple geographical locations.

5. The WG will develop standards for auditing the supply chain claims that are introduced in the transparent registry. This will in turn generate audit claims (results of the audit) which can be introduced in the same registry. Audit information can be queried by supply chain consumers (end customers) before making business critical descisions.

6. The WG will develop standards that define the process of notarization and outline the core functions/actions that a notary will perform in supply chain ecosystem.

> 7. Standardize request-response interactions ("external API") and potential other interaction models provided to various actors to interact with the supply chain ecosystem. This includes standardizing inter-component messages between supply chain building blocks in support of easy reference implementations of SCITT building blocks by various organizations and easy industry wide adaptation.

Reviewer: ahh, here is the section I was looking for... excellent
